once a year I spend um one month in the
wards um as part of the I mean you know
I I see patients one day a week but I
spend one full month in the clinical WS
um away from the laboratory um first of
all it humanizes me um and every year I
ask myself when I go the first day of
the Ws I ask myself why am I doing this
um and I sit down with the with usually
the interns and residents and the first
time you see the interns or residents
who passing through the Cancer Ward they
are Shell Shocked um cancer still lives
thankfully actually lives in the
outpatient World these days it doesn't
live in the wards anymore but it when it
does live in the wards it is a
particularly nasty variant usually these
are people who are going through
complications of chemotherapy these are
people who have failed chemotherapies
they're coming back for second rounds
third rounds Etc it's a depressing place
um and I I sit down at rounds the first
day and I say to them in
1947 if you were in Boston um and you
happened to be the internal resident
taking care of a child with acute
lymphoblastic leukemia you could be sure
that 100% of your patients would die in
the man in a matter of six 6 days 7 Days
10 days 2 weeks 4 weeks 100% of the
patients if you then came came back to
that same ward in
1957 you would find that the numbers had
decreased to 50% if you came back to the
same world in 1977 it would be down to
10% by 1990s it would be down to 10 or
you know 10 15% uh downrange and here's
what's here's what the kicker for me is
that and I tell myself this actually I'm
telling myself this you won't know if
you if if the woman with malignant
metastatic melanoma is going to be part
of that 15% in 10 years from now or if
if if she's not going to be and
amazingly enough it's that uncertainty
that will drive you it drives me you
won't know you cannot tell but imagine
that moment of time I mean it should
send it should send a shiver up everyone
if it doesn't send to shiver up your
spine you're in the wrong profession
that that that the that 100% of these
children would be dead and in 10 years
time because of Serial iterative
advances 90% of of those children were
being cured are being cured 80 90% of
these children are being cured and
imagine being able to do that for
melanoma imagine being able to do that
for acute myogenous leukemia imagine
being able to do that with metastatic
herto positive breast cancer triple
negative breast cancer you know um that
uncertainty will drive us in places that
we've never been before and I think it's
something very profound about medicine